---
layout: post
title: 'SLED 11 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV610 [Radeon HD 2400
  XT]'
date: 2009-06-17 01:48:00.000000000 -06:00
---
I have a dual screen setup on SLED, and after an update, it killed my X system.  After disabling XRandR... <blockquote>aticonfig --set-pcs-str="DDX,EnableRandR12,FALSE"</blockquote> ...and redoing xorg.conf from scratch via... <blockquote>xorgconfig</blockquote> ...I was finally able to get my dual monitors working again.  Here is my xorg.conf:<br /><br /><blockquote>Section "ServerLayout"<br /><br /># The Identifier line must be present<br /># Each Screen line specifies a Screen section name, and optionally<br /># the relative position of other screens.  The four names after<br /># primary screen name are the screens to the top, bottom, left and right<br /># of the primary screen.  In this example, screen 2 is located to the<br /># right of screen 1.<br /># Each InputDevice line specifies an InputDevice section name and<br /># optionally some options to specify the way the device is to be<br /># used.  Those options include "CorePointer", "CoreKeyboard" and<br /># "SendCoreEvents".<br />        Identifier     "Simple Layout"<br />        Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0<br />        InputDevice    "Mouse1" "CorePointer"<br />        InputDevice    "Keyboard1" "CoreKeyboard"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Files"<br /><br /># Multiple FontPath entries are allowed (which are concatenated together),<br /># as well as specifying multiple comma-separated entries in one FontPath<br /># command (or a combination of both methods)<br /># <br />#    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/TTF/"<br />#    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/OTF"<br />#    FontPath   "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/local/"<br />#    FontPath   "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc/:unscaled"<br />#    FontPath   "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"<br />#    FontPath   "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"<br />#    FontPath   "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1/"<br />#    FontPath   "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/TrueType/"<br />#    FontPath   "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/freefont/"<br /># The module search path.  The default path is shown here.<br />#    ModulePath "/usr/lib/modules"<br />        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/misc:unscaled"<br />        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/Type1/"<br />        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/100dpi:unscaled"<br />        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/75dpi:unscaled"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Module"<br /><br /># This loads the DBE extension module.<br /># This loads the miscellaneous extensions module, and disables<br /># initialisation of the XFree86-DGA extension within that module.<br /># This loads the font modules<br />#    Load        "type1"<br /># This loads the GLX module<br />#    Load       "glx"<br /># This loads the DRI module<br />#    Load       "dri"<br />        Load  "dbe"     # Double buffer extension<br />        SubSection "extmod"<br />                Option      "omit xfree86-dga"   # don't initialise the DGA extension<br />        EndSubSection<br />        Load  "freetype"<br />#    Load        "xtt"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "InputDevice"<br /><br />#    Option     "Xleds"      "1 2 3"<br />#    Option "LeftAlt"     "Meta"<br />#    Option "RightAlt"    "ModeShift"<br /># To customise the XKB settings to suit your keyboard, modify the<br /># lines below (which are the defaults).  For example, for a non-U.S.<br /># keyboard, you will probably want to use:<br />#    Option "XkbModel"    "pc105"<br /># If you have a US Microsoft Natural keyboard, you can use:<br />#    Option "XkbModel"    "microsoft"<br />#<br /># Then to change the language, change the Layout setting.<br /># For example, a german layout can be obtained with:<br />#    Option "XkbLayout"   "de"<br /># or:<br />#    Option "XkbLayout"   "de"<br />#    Option "XkbVariant"  "nodeadkeys"<br />#<br /># If you'd like to switch the positions of your capslock and<br /># control keys, use:<br />#    Option "XkbOptions"  "ctrl:swapcaps"<br /># These are the default XKB settings for Xorg<br />#    Option "XkbRules"    "xorg"<br />#    Option "XkbModel"    "pc105"<br />#    Option "XkbLayout"   "us"<br />#    Option "XkbVariant"  ""<br />#    Option "XkbOptions"  ""<br />#    Option "XkbDisable"<br />        Identifier  "Keyboard1"<br />        Driver      "kbd"<br />        Option      "AutoRepeat" "500 30"<br /># Specify which keyboard LEDs can be user-controlled (eg, with xset(1))<br />        Option      "XkbRules" "xorg"<br />        Option      "XkbModel" "pc101"<br />        Option      "XkbLayout" "us"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "InputDevice"<br /><br /># Identifier and driver<br />#    Option "Resolution"        "256"<br /># Baudrate and SampleRate are only for some Logitech mice. In<br /># almost every case these lines should be omitted.<br />#    Option "BaudRate"  "9600"<br />#    Option "SampleRate"        "150"<br /># Mouse wheel mapping.  Default is to map vertical wheel to buttons 4 & 5,<br /># horizontal wheel to buttons 6 & 7.   Change if your mouse has more than<br /># 3 buttons and you need to map the wheel to different button ids to avoid<br /># conflicts.<br /># Emulate3Timeout is the timeout in milliseconds (default is 50ms)<br />#    Option "Emulate3Buttons"<br />#    Option "Emulate3Timeout"    "50"<br /># ChordMiddle is an option for some 3-button Logitech mice<br />#    Option "ChordMiddle"<br />        Identifier  "Mouse1"<br />        Driver      "mouse"<br />        Option      "Protocol" "Auto"   # Auto detect<br />        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/mice"<br /># Mouse-speed setting for PS/2 mouse.<br />        Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5 6 7"<br /># Emulate3Buttons is an option for 2-button mice<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Monitor"<br /><br /># HorizSync is in kHz unless units are specified.<br /># HorizSync may be a comma separated list of discrete values, or a<br /># comma separated list of ranges of values.<br /># NOTE: THE VALUES HERE ARE EXAMPLES ONLY.  REFER TO YOUR MONITOR'S<br /># USER MANUAL FOR THE CORRECT NUMBERS.<br />#    HorizSync  30-64         # multisync<br />#    HorizSync  31.5, 35.2    # multiple fixed sync frequencies<br />#    HorizSync  15-25, 30-50  # multiple ranges of sync frequencies<br /># VertRefresh is in Hz unless units are specified.<br /># VertRefresh may be a comma separated list of discrete values, or a<br /># comma separated list of ranges of values.<br /># NOTE: THE VALUES HERE ARE EXAMPLES ONLY.  REFER TO YOUR MONITOR'S<br /># USER MANUAL FOR THE CORRECT NUMBERS.<br />        Identifier   "sammysung"<br />        HorizSync    30.0 - 81.0<br />        VertRefresh  56.0 - 75.0<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Monitor"<br />        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"<br />        Option      "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"<br />        Option      "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"<br />        Option      "DPMS" "true"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Monitor"<br />        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-1"<br />        Option      "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"<br />        Option      "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"<br />        Option      "DPMS" "true"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Device"<br /><br /># The chipset line is optional in most cases.  It can be used to override<br /># the driver's chipset detection, and should not normally be specified.<br />#    Chipset    "generic"<br /># The Driver line must be present.  When using run-time loadable driver<br /># modules, this line instructs the server to load the specified driver<br /># module.  Even when not using loadable driver modules, this line<br /># indicates which driver should interpret the information in this section.<br /># The BusID line is used to specify which of possibly multiple devices<br /># this section is intended for.  When this line isn't present, a device<br /># section can only match up with the primary video device.  For PCI<br /># devices a line like the following could be used.  This line should not<br /># normally be included unless there is more than one video device<br /># intalled.<br />#    BusID      "PCI:0:10:0"<br />#    VideoRam   256<br />#    Clocks     25.2 28.3<br />        Identifier  "Standard VGA"<br />
Driver      "vga"<br />        VendorName  "Unknown"<br />        BoardName   "Unknown"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Device"<br /><br />    #VideoRam    32768<br />    # Insert Clocks lines here if appropriate<br />        Identifier  "atisammy"<br />        Driver      "radeon"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Device"<br />        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"<br />        Driver      "fglrx"<br />        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Device"<br />        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-1"<br />        Driver      "fglrx"<br />        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"<br />        Screen      1<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Screen"<br />        Identifier "Screen 1"<br />        Device     "atisammy"<br />        Monitor    "sammysung"<br />        DefaultDepth     24<br />        SubSection "Display"<br />                Viewport   0 0<br />                Depth     8<br />                Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"<br />        EndSubSection<br />        SubSection "Display"<br />                Viewport   0 0<br />                Depth     16<br />                Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"<br />        EndSubSection<br />        SubSection "Display"<br />                Viewport   0 0<br />                Depth     24<br />                Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"<br />        EndSubSection<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Screen"<br />        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"<br />        Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"<br />        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"<br />        DefaultDepth     24<br />        SubSection "Display"<br />                Viewport   0 0<br />                Depth     24<br />        EndSubSection<br />EndSection<br /><br />Section "Screen"<br />        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-1"<br />        Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-1"<br />        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-1"<br />        DefaultDepth     24<br />        SubSection "Display"<br />                Viewport   0 0<br />                Virtual   2560 1024<br />                Depth     24<br />        EndSubSection<br />EndSection<br /><br />                       </blockquote>
